.. _contributing:

==============
 Contributing
==============

Miro is a Free Software [#]_ project.  It is built, supported and
maintained by a community of volunteers, users, and developers
contributing their time and skills.

**This is your project, too!**

Everyone plays a role in Miro development---we all help to make it
better.  This chapter covers various ways you can help the Miro
project.

.. [#] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software


.. index:: contributing; evangelizing

Evangelize
==========

We don't spend any money on marketing---Miro's success is based solely
on word-of-mouth and news generated by releases.

Using Miro and telling everyone you know about it helps the project
tremendously.  Some of these people will become users.  Some will
become contributors.  Some will help translate.  Some will contribute
funds for continued development.  Some will tell their friends and
family.

We encourage you to download Miro, copy it, burn it to a CD, put it on
a thumbdrive, and give it to friends and family.

Write about your experience with Miro.  What works for you?  What
doesn't?  Which podcasts are you watching and listening to?  How do
they enrich your life and the lives of those around you?

Buy a Miro t-shirt and wear it.  Tell people how the future of Open
Video affects us all and ensuring its success helps to make the world
a better place.

Tell your favorite podcast publishers to add "add to Miro" buttons to
their podcast sites.

Download the source code, print it out, and wallpaper your favorite
building with it [#]_.

Support your friends using Miro and help them help us help them by
sending in bug reports and feature requests or writing posts in the
forums.

.. [#] That's actually probably a bad idea.  Miro 3.0 contains 55,890
   lines of code.  Assuming 80 lines of code per page, that'd be 698
   pages.  If those pages were 8 1/2 by 11, then that's 453 square
   feet.  That's enough to cover the walls of a room that's 8 feet
   tall by 8 feet long by 7 feet wide.

   You could adopt a line of code at our `Miro Adoption Center
   <http://getmiro.com/adopt/>`_.


.. index:: contributing; testing

Test
====

We spend a lot of time testing Miro.  Even so, it's impossible for us
to test Miro in all the configurations on all the platforms with all
the various video hardware and other complex configurations.  Helping
us test is immensely useful and directly impacts the quality of Miro
releases.

There are two ways we test Miro.  The first is through a series of
unit tests that exist alongside the source code.  These unit tests
test a small amount of Miro, but do so in a programmatic way.

The second and more important way we test Miro is running through the
many tests that Janet has put together.  Often running through a test
is a 5-minute endeavor.  Having many people run through the same tests
gives us a good feel for how well those parts of the code are working.
Comprehensive user-interface tests are very important in a desktop
application.

Whether it's testing a nightly build to see if a specific bug has been
fixed or testing a release candidate to make sure it's solid for a
final release, Miro wouldn't exist without the community of volunteer
testers.

Additionally, testers see new features and bug fixes before they're
available in final releases.  If you're interested in the
bleeding-edge of Miro development, then you'll be interested in
testing.

If you're interested in helping us test, visit `Janet's Miro testing
blog <http://pculture.org/devblogs/mirotesting/about/>`_.


.. index:: contributing; translating

Translate
=========

Miro is translated by the community.  You can help out by translating
strings in your language through the `Launchpad interface
<https://translations.launchpad.net/democracy>`_.

Translations are synced into the Miro codebase periodically during the
development cycle as well as just before releases.


.. index:: contributing; programming

Develop
=======

Miro is a Free Software project and we encourage everyone to help us
fix bugs, implement new features, and fine-tune the existing code.
It's often the case that there are things we want to do to make Miro
better, but those things end up sitting in someone's queue for long
periods of time because we lack the time and resources to get to
everything.

If you're interested in helping to develop, visit the `Miro
development Center
<https://develop.participatoryculture.org/trac/democracy/>`_.

If you're just getting started, look at bugs in our `Bugzilla
bug-tracker <http://bugzilla.pculture.org/>`_ tagged "bite-sized".


.. index:: contributing; donating

Contribute money
================

Most small projects require paid staff whose primary job it is to
facilitate development and provide continuity for the project as
contributors come and go.  Without paid staff to keep things going or
independently rich, small projects tend to run out of momentum,
stagnate, and cease to be meaningful.

`Participatory Culture Foundation <http://pculture.org>`_ is a 501(3)c
non-profit dedicated to ensuring that our political, social and
cultural systems are open and democratic for everyone.  A huge part of
this mission is ensuring the success of Open Video.  Our primary
projects for fulfilling our mission are Miro, Miro Guide, and Miro
Community.

Contributions are an important way we raise money to fund further
development.  Contributing money to PCF directly impacts continued
development on Miro.
