==============
 Introduction
==============


.. index:: miro; what is Miro?

What is Miro?
=============

Miro is an amazing open-source, non-profit video player.

**Works with your current music library**

It's very easy to switch from iTunes to Miro---without any copying.
Just point Miro to your music and video folders and those files will
appear.  If you don't like Miro (impossible!), nothing's changed.

**Converts and syncs to Android**

You'd have to be crazy to use a music player that doesn't sync to your
phone.  Miro is simply the best music and video player for Android
phones and tablets.

**Buy music and apps from inside Miro**

The Amazon MP3 store is built-in to Miro.  Buy, download, and listen,
seamlessly.  Buy Android apps from the Amazon or Google app stores and
they will sync to your device.

**Download and play almost any video**

Do you still use separate programs to download, play music, play
videos, and sync to your phone?  Miro plays almost any video or music
format and downloads from YouTube, podcasts, Amazon, and bittorrent.

**Convert any video**

You can convert almost any video with Miro into mp4/h264, with presets
for almost any device you can think of (including iPhones, iPods,
iPads, Android phones, and more).

**Share Your Media on your Network**

When two Miro's are on the same wifi network, they can stream and
transfer music and videos to each other.  It's the easiest way to
watch a video or play music upstairs if the file is downstairs.

**Open-source---don't lock yourself in!**

Unlike some other media players (cough, cough), Miro is not trying to
run your life!  Not only is Miro 100% free and open-source, it's made
by a `non-profit organization <http://pculture.org/>`_.  You don't
need to be locked down by one corporation to have a great media
experience.

**Ultra-fast torrent downloading**

Miro has some of the fastest bittorrent downloading in the world,
built in.  Try us head-to-head with any bittorrent application!

**But it's not about the features!**

Miro has a lot of features, but that's not what matters---it's the
experience.  Miro is a simple, beautiful, unified way to download,
organize, and watch videos and listen to music.  And it's totally
free.


.. index:: participatory culture foundation, pcf

Who works on Miro?
==================

The bulk of the implementation/programming is done by staff members of
Participatory Culture Foundation with contributions from people like
you.

Translations are contributed by volunteers using the `Launchpad
translations interface
<https://translations.launchpad.net/democracy>`_.

Testing and QA is done by Janet and people like you who volunteer your
time and equipment to help make Miro bug-free.

If you're interested in being a part of our team, see
:ref:`Contributing <contributing>`.


.. index:: participatory culture foundation, pcf

Who is Participatory Culture Foundation?
========================================

`Participatory Culture Foundation <http://pculture.org/>`_ is a
501(c)3 non-profit based in Worcester, MA, USA.  We were founded in
2005 with a mission to build tools and services that give people more
ways to engage in their culture.

We have several projects we work on:

1. `Miro <http://getmiro.com/>`_ - Our free and open-source desktop
   video player, built on open standards and designed to encourage
   decentralization of video hosting.

2. `Miro Community <http://mirocommunity.org/>`_ - An open-source
   video presentation service that organizations and communities use
   to quickly create a beautiful video website.

3. `Open Video Alliance <http://openvideoalliance.org/>`_ - PCF is a
   founder of the Open Video Alliance, a coalition of organizations,
   companies, and individuals that are working to create open tools,
   workflows, licensing systems for online video.

4. `Miro Video Converter <http://www.mirovideoconverter.com/>`_ - An
   open source video converter for Windows and OSX that makes it
   really really easy to convert videos targeting a variety of popular
   devices in a variety of popular formats including Ogg Theora and
   WebM.

5. `Universal Subtitles <http://universalsubtitles.org/>`_ - A
   project to make captioning, subtitling, and translating video
   publicly accessible in a way that's free and open.  We're building
   tools and infrastructure to make creating and distributing subtitles
   easy to do for everyone for all video on the Internet.

6. And other projects, too!

Participatory Culture Foundation is a non-profit and we work on Miro
and other projects and make them available to everyone for free.  We
work with organizations like `Wikimedia <http://wikimedia.org/>`_,
`Mozilla <http://www.mozilla.org/>`_, `Creative Commons
<http://creativecommons.org/>`_, and others to make the web and video
on the web open and usable by everyone.

If you value the work that we do or wish we could do more of it,
please consider donating your time and money.  For more on this, see
:ref:`Contributing <contributing>`.
